Using Twitter and other social media to make predictions and business
decisions could be valuable, but transforming a complex social network
into usable data is not an easy task. To transform this data into something
useful, we first must find a way to extract some signal from all the noise
present in the social network. The exact definition of signal is project
dependent, but it may be possible, regardless of the project, to find signal by 
uncovering how different people are connected and how information moves through
these connections. With an understanding of a social network's structure,
analysts can focus specifically on areas of the network through which important
information moves and ignore the remainder.

---

Effective visualization of a social network can help generate insight into this
structure. To create an effective visualizations, it is useful to break the network
down into "layers" and create a visualization of each layer.

---

The first layer of interest is the information layer. Here we need a
visualization that allows us to see how a single piece of information moves and
behaves in the network. In Twitter, the unit of information is a Tweet, and the
information moves when a Tweet is retweeted. A visualization of this layer
exposes the behavior of information moving through the system, and a bit about
the nature of the system. For example, generally the number of retweets per hour
for any given tweet starts high and very quickly drops off. This indicates that
information on Twitter generally moves the most when it is introduced into the
system, then quickly becomes uninteresting to Twitter users and fades.

---

The next interesting layer is a logical grouping of pieces of information. In
Twitter, this is an account. An account makes many Tweets, so we need a way to
visualize Tweets posted by an account. This visualization will help generate
insight into what Tweets posted by someone are actually signal, and what Tweets
are ultimately unimportant. An effective visualization at this layer also must
expose something about the nature of the accounts (Do they post many meaningless
Tweets and a few important ones, or mostly important Tweets).

-

The final layer is the network as a whole, or some subset of it. In Twitter,
this means finding a compact way to visualize many accounts simultaneously. This
visualization makes it possible to select accounts of interest out of a list of
accounts and find accounts that have similar behavior.

---

Using these visualizations it should be possible to explore the Twitter network
and gain some insight into the structure of social networks, so that predictions
can be made looking at more signal than noise.
